Temperature chapter (#128)
festim-dev/FESTIM-workshop: book/content/temperatures/temperatures_advanced.md

Reviewer: Looks great! Maybe just add the units in one place to make it even clearer.

---
jupyter:
  jupytext:
    formats: ipynb,md
    text_representation:
      extension: .md
      format_name: markdown
      format_version: '1.3'
      jupytext_version: 1.17.3
  kernelspec:
    display_name: festim-workshop
    language: python
    name: python3
---

# Advanced functionality #

FESTIM has an internal solver `HeatTransferProblem` for heat transfer problems. This can be helpful for multiphysics coupling or simulations where temperatures cannot be prescribed, but must be solved for. This tutorial shows how to use FESTIM's heat-transfer solvers and coupling it to hydrogen transport simulations.

Objectives:
* Solve steady-state and transient heat-transfer problems in FESTIM
* Couple transient hydrogen transport and heat-transfer simulations

> ## Solving steady-state and transient heat-transfer problems ##

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Temperature field from a steady state heat transfer simulation
```

```python
mat = F.Material(D_0=4.1e-7, E_D=0.39, thermal_conductivity=thermal_cond_function, density=20, heat_capacity=50)    # kg/m3, J/kg/K
volume_subdomain = F.VolumeSubdomain(id=1, material=mat)

heat_transfer_model.subdomains = [volume_subdomain, top_bot, left, right]

heat_transfer_model.settings = F.Settings(
    atol=1e-09,
    rtol=1e-09,
    stepsize=0.1,
    final_time=5
)

heat_transfer_model.initialise()
heat_transfer_model.run() 
```

```python tags=["hide-input"]
pyvista.start_xvfb()
pyvista.set_jupyter_backend("html")

T = heat_transfer_model.u

topology, cell_types, geometry = plot.vtk_mesh(T.function_space)
u_grid = pyvista.UnstructuredGrid(topology, cell_types, geometry)
u_grid.point_data["T"] = T.x.array.real
u_grid.set_active_scalars("T")
u_plotter = pyvista.Plotter()
u_plotter.add_mesh(u_grid, cmap="inferno", show_edges=False)
u_plotter.add_mesh(u_grid, style="wireframe", color="white", opacity=0.2)

contours = u_grid.contour(9)
u_plotter.add_mesh(contours, color="white")

u_plotter.view_xy()

if not pyvista.OFF_SCREEN:
    u_plotter.show()
else:
    figure = u_plotter.screenshot("temperature.png")
```

> ## Coupling a transient heat-transfer and hydrogen transport problem ##

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Temperature from a transient heat transfer simulation
```

---
jupytext:
  formats: ipynb,md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.17.3
kernelspec:
  display_name: festim-workshop
  language: python
  name: python3
---

# Advanced functionality #

FESTIM has an internal solver `HeatTransferProblem` for heat transfer problems. This can be helpful for multiphysics coupling or simulations where temperatures cannot be prescribed, but must be solved for. This tutorial shows how to use FESTIM's heat-transfer solvers and coupling it to hydrogen transport simulations.

Objectives:
* Solve steady-state and transient heat-transfer problems in FESTIM
* Couple transient hydrogen transport and heat-transfer simulations

+++

> ## Temperature field from a steady state heat transfer simulation ##

Reviewer 2: I would add subsections here:
- define and run heat transfer sim
- run hydrogen transport sim

The governing equation for transient heat transfer is:

$$\rho \ C_p \frac{\partial T}{\partial t} = \nabla \cdot (\lambda \ \nabla T) + \dot{Q} $$

> 

Reviewer 2: If you talk about steady state problems here, then I don't see the point of mentioning the transient equation

For steady-state problems, the left side of the equation is equal to 0:

$$  \nabla \cdot (\lambda \ \nabla T) + \dot{Q} = 0 $$

> Consider the following steady-state heat transfer problem:

Reviewer 2: You don't describe the mathematical problem you are solving. only the implementation.

```{code-cell} ipython3
import festim as F

heat_transfer_model = F.HeatTransferProblem()
```

We define a thermal conductivity function $ \lambda $ and assign it to our material:  

```{code-cell} ipython3
def thermal_cond_function(T):
    return 3 + 0.1 * T

> mat = F.Material(D_0=4.1e-7, E_D=0.39, thermal_conductivity=thermal_cond_function)

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't use "real" values for diffusivity here.

```

> We can also add heat sources (`HeatSource`), fixed temperature (`FixedTemperatureBC`), and heat flux (`HeatFluxBC`) boundary conditions. We also prescribe a convective heat flux by defining an external temperature $T_{ext}$ and heat transfer coefficient $h$:

Reviewer 2: Here you use maths symbols T_ext, h but without equations. I would use the "code" version instead in this case `T_ext` and `h`.

left = F.SurfaceSubdomain(id=3, locator=lambda x: np.isclose(x[0], 0.0))
right = F.SurfaceSubdomain(id=4, locator=lambda x: np.isclose(x[0], 1.0))
subdomains = [volume_subdomain, top_bot, left, right]

heat_transfer_model = F.HeatTransferProblem()
hydrogen_problem = F.HydrogenTransportProblem()

heat_transfer_model.mesh = mesh   
hydrogen_problem.mesh = mesh

H = F.Species("H")
hydrogen_problem.species = [H]

hydrogen_problem.boundary_conditions = [
    F.FixedConcentrationBC(subdomain=top_bot, value=1e10, species=H),
    F.FixedConcentrationBC(subdomain=left, value=0, species=H),
]

heat_transfer_model.subdomains = subdomains
hydrogen_problem.subdomains = subdomains

hydrogen_problem.settings = F.Settings(
    transient=True,
    atol=1e-09,
    rtol=1e-09,
    stepsize=1,
    final_time=50
)

fixed_temperature_left = F.FixedTemperatureBC(
    subdomain=left, value=lambda x: 350 + 20 * ufl.cos(x[0]) * ufl.sin(x[1])
)

heat_transfer_model.boundary_conditions = [
    fixed_temperature_left,
]

heat_transfer_model.settings = F.Settings(
    transient=True,
    atol=1e-09,
    rtol=1e-09,
    stepsize=1,
    final_time=50
)
```

> Finally, we define and solve a new `problem` using `CoupledTransientHeatTransferHydrogenTransport`:

Reviewer 2: `problem` here is just the name we give to this variable. It could be `banana`, we are not "solving a new `banana`" 

I think you want to say
```suggestion
Finally, we define and solve a new problem using the `CoupledTransientHeatTransferHydrogenTransport` class:
```

```{code-cell} ipython3

> problem = F.CoupledTransientHeatTransferHydrogenTransport(heat_problem=heat_transfer_model, hydrogen_problem=hydrogen_problem)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
problem = F.CoupledTransientHeatTransferHydrogenTransport(
    heat_problem=heat_transfer_model,
    hydrogen_problem=hydrogen_problem
    )
```

---
jupytext:
  formats: ipynb,md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.17.3
kernelspec:
  display_name: festim-workshop
  language: python
  name: python3
---

# Advanced functionality #

FESTIM has an internal solver `HeatTransferProblem` for heat transfer problems. This can be helpful for multiphysics coupling or simulations where temperatures cannot be prescribed, but must be solved for. This tutorial shows how to use FESTIM's heat-transfer solvers and coupling it to hydrogen transport simulations.

Objectives:
* Solve steady-state and transient heat-transfer problems in FESTIM
* Couple transient hydrogen transport and heat-transfer simulations

+++

## Defining and running a steady-state heat transfer simulation ##

Consider the following 2D heat transfer problem, where we want to find the temperature field by solving the steady-state heat transfer equation:

$$  \nabla \cdot (\lambda \ \nabla T) + \dot{Q} = 0 $$

Additionally, we define the following boundary conditions in our problem:

> 

Reviewer 3: Could maybe add some definitions for the lambda and Q here as well as units
